## raccoon

**raccoon** is a high performance, IRCv3.2 capable, charybdis-based, and scalable IRC daemon.
raccoon-ircd is a fork of aspircd (@aspircd) which is maintained by (@vagbox) and (@twinusers)

## Information
This IRCd heads in the version UnrealIRCd (3.2.x branch) was headed and continues to be in the same direction
to provide the now removed features in the latest 4.0+ Releases.

## Main differences between this release and depreciated Charybdis 4:
- It has +q (owner mode) , +a (admin mode) and the general +Ohv modes which Charybdis already contains. Due to this we had to shift the quiet mode to +y
- It is headed in the direction of UnrealIRCd and hence a lot of features on the Charybdis platform.
- It has one more major feature +h which IRC Operators set to declare themselves as helpops and show an swhois ‘is available for help.’ in their /whois
- It has in built support for mbedTLS which is automatically selected on ARM based servers
- It has support for Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) for connection and linking servers
- It has support for starttls and TLS v1.3 (most secured TLS base in the IRC industry)

## Supported Platforms

All modern \*NIX systems should work. You need the equivalent of the following
Debian packages:

 - `libssl-dev`
 - `flex`
 - `bison`
 - `build-essential`
 - `libsqlite3-dev`
 - `libtool`
 - `autoconf`
 - `python` - 2.7 or earlier

 
 ## Debian/ubuntu Users

If you have a newly installed OS, you should primarily run `apt-get update` followed by `apt-get install libssl-dev flex python3 python bison build-essential libsqlite3-dev pkg-config autoconf openssl libtool`

Read the included documentation for detailed compilation and install
directions.
 
 ## Installation
 
 This is a quick setup guide. In order to install, fork this repository : `git clone https://github.com/raccoon-ircd/raccoon.git`
 
* Then `cd raccoon`

* then to run the configure script, this will ask you simple questions important for your IRC setup, run `./Setup` - this script will automatically configure, and build raccoon.
* You will be automatically asked whether or not to generate a **Self-Signed** certificate for your IRC daemon. We prefer LetsEncrypt's signed certificates, so you better generate one for your IRCd's hostname (Example: irc.example.com)

**your IRCd will be installed in `/HOME DIRECTORY/ircd` by default.**

## CONFIGURATION

You need to rename the configuration file generated by the default name from `/HOME DIRECTORY/ircd/etc/example.conf` to `/HOME DIRECTORY/ircd/etc/ircd.conf`
For proper documentation regarding configuring up your IRCd real quick, you may check our wiki at: https://coming.soon/

## Support
Interested in meeting the developers?
You may contact our Team at:-
Vibhore Agarwal (vagbox) (vagbox -at- outlook.com)

Finding services that fully supports this IRCd?
https://github.com/raccoon/shale-services
Please note that the only Services which is effectively compatible with raccoon 0.6.8 or newer is our fork of **Atheme services** , which we call as **Shale Services** the custom protocol for this IRCd is **raccoon.c** which has been provided with the package.

For further references of how to load the protocol, refer to shale.example.conf (Rename it to shale.conf)

Please use ***GitHub issue tracker*** for any issues
